This is such a beautiful morning. I can't thank my
maker for sparing me this day. You know, as we grow
older, Don't take time, or probably, I wouldn't
say as we grow older, I say as we're younger people,
we don't take time to say how great it is to wake up in
the morning and see the sunrise. We take it for
granted. But in reality, the man above has the time
clock. And to some of us, that clock is soon to run
out. But I want the world to know that I enjoy my life
and all of my friends. As I set out this morning on my
little porch, my home, it was the greatest
experience that I have ever witnessed, or one of
the greatest, I will say that. I had always been
under the impression that a chaparral or a road
runner or a persona, whatever you want to call it,
made its nest on the ground. But to my great
surprise, it doesn't. And I sat there and I watched
that mother bring her two babies down the tree and
across the highway and over on vacant lot it was the
greatest thing that I can tell you that ever was she
got to the edge of the tree she raised her tail three
times and whatever noise you want to say she made
whether it was with her bill or with her voice box as
you know the persona call as well as I she made that
call a couple of times. Now just twice, not three
times. But she raised the tail three times. Those
little birds came tripping down that tree. How?
I'm sure they helped with their claws. And she
stood at the root of the tree until they were down.
She took them out on the flat and Sure, there was
grasshoppers, there was bugs, and they were fed.
When she got to the highway, she walked to the edge
of it. She raised that tail again three times. She
gave a couple of calls, whether it was with her
bill, I don't know, or how, but you know the persona
call. And these little toots came up to the side of
the road And they ran. They didn't just trip, but
they ran across that road. And she hopped across on
the other side. She got up on the top. She went right
up the cut in this Dobie flat, which was at least
three and a half to four feet high. She stood up
there. She raised that tail three times. She gave
that call. She looked from one side to the other.
She looked to the east, to the west, to the north.
And she gave the call a second time. And let me tell
you, those little birds came up that high
embankment and right to her feet. To me, where
else? can a person but the hill country sit and
watch anything any more lovely than that. Yes, she
was training her babies to look to the right, to the
left, and then make your move. She popped that bill
a couple of times, and every one of them came to her
It's just like they were standing at attention.
And she came down the trail to where she had been fed
before. And we had pitched out some bread. She took
it in her beak. The babies didn't come. Now, they
didn't come down that trail. She took it in her beak
and took it back over and fed them. Well, at the end
of the third day, the babies came. And she brought
them with the same precaution across the highway
and took them back.
The training of even a bird begins in infancy. You
forget, mothers and fathers, I know from actual
experience that a mother's touch and a mother's
love and a mother's intuition means more than any
babysitter could ever mean. No one can look back on
life and remember it like they can at as they can,
kneeling at the side of their mother in prayer at
evening, or hearing her lullabies to put them to
sleep at night. I know that I am one of the most
fortunate people in the world. Yes, one of the
poorest, but one of the richest when it comes to
God's own handiwork. My mother had the most
beautiful soprano voice, my father a beautiful
tenor voice. They had time to sing to us when we
wanted to hear it. They had time to tell us stories
at night. They had time to tuck us in because we had
more time than we had money. We had more time to
spend at home than we had to go somewhere because we
didn't have the money to put the gas in old Betsy to
go. Those were days that was molding of a
character. I had a friend here today that is
several years older than I, but one that knows the
history of the hill country. backwards,
forwards, upside down, and crossways. I had
forgotten a lot of the things that he reminded me
of. I well remember riding in races when I wasn't
over 12 years old. Race race, horse races. And it
didn't excite me. I enjoyed it. Could you see? Can
you think of a girl today getting out and doing
things like that? Well, that was the thing that we
did for entertainment. Rope, ride, tell stories,
kick the can, see who was the fastest to do this or
who could jump the furthest, who could high jump
the highest and all of that. That was all we had to
do. was our own skills. But that makes life worth
living and look back on today. Those people who
competed with us, I look back today. They're
doctors,
nurses, schoolteachers. In other words, they are
the salt of the earth. and they were brought up in
the hill country. I want the world to know that
there's not a smarter man that ever walked out of
the Johnson City High School. Now that was just a
little too before school but we put out mighty good
people and Emmett Redford Dr. Emmett Redford, I
should say, is one of the best educated. All right,
we'll have Dr.
Revity Glidden. Let me tell you, these people were
the salt of the earth, and they worked, and they
worked hard to get what they had because they
didn't have the money handed down to them. And they
really put out to get what they had.
Not only did we produce presidents, but we have
produced just as many good lay people. And they all
have roots down in the hill country.
No trabaje tanto. Today, the fifth day of
September, 1981,
Corky and I went down to the ranch to take an
inventory of the cattle that we had and how old they
were, which ones we should dispose of, which ones
we should keep. Honestly, I know that people
hearing this or reading it will not believe it. But
it's true, folks. We have some cattle down there
that are crossbreds, Angus and Bramers, that are
20 years old. They are in the best shape. Fat? Yes.
have the finest calves on them that we have ever
produced. But I told Corky, I said, Corky, to me, it
definitely is a risk To go through another winter
with cattle this old it's time that we sold them,
even though you don't get too much for them, they
have served their time they've served their
purpose and they like other folks or people are.
beyond their productive years. However, I will
say this. They have produced the best calf crop
this year that I have ever seen. I don't know
whether it is the breed, the cross, or whether it is
the grassland on which they graze. I have often
said, and I've heard my daddy say it, I've heard Sid
Hyatt, and I've heard Harvey Croft, Armand Ware,
and my Uncle Jay say any time that you can get a
granite, gravel, piece of land the grass on it has
more minerals and is stronger than any grass that
can grow in the hill country. That I believe with
all my heart because that's exactly what we have on
our place and that's exactly why these cows are in
such good shape. I have a little framer bull down
there that I call Little Bull. I can stand on the car
and blow the horn and say, come on, Little Bull.
He's only a year old and he'll come running off of
that hill just for me to love him and pet him and
scratch his ears, scratch around his horn,
scratch around his tail. I can touch him on his four
legs and say, get down, brother. I can't reach up
here. What does he do? He lays down. Now, I'm
telling you, if you know anything about Bremer
cattle, you know that they've got to know you and
know you love them, or they're not going to do it.
And listen, he is one of the best. And to me, that's
what life is all about. Corky said, well, I've just
got to sell these. I don't know what else to do. I
said, give me time, Corky. I don't want this one to
go to market. because he would mean a lot to
somebody as a herd bull. Let me put him on the
trading post as an advertisement. If nothing
else, I'll take him to town and stake him in my front
yard and show people what he can do, and I won't have
any trouble selling him. So I sold him on the idea.
So It won't be long until you'll see a Bremer bull
out in my front yard. And I hope to be able to show the
world what he can do. And I'm proud of him. Now
that's just a small accomplishment. That's just a
small thing in life. But to me, that's living.
Letting the animals Know that you love them. And
just like this morning, I was sitting out in the
front reading my newspaper about 6.30, and I had
the porch light on. Wasn't but a few minutes
till... in jumps bunny bunks a squirrel in the tree
and I've never heard such barking and scolding in
my life and that was no other reason but I had the
porch light on and sitting in the port in my chair on
the porch reading the paper I said bunks if you'll
come around the back door I'll feed you and hush
that chattering well in a few minutes I could hear
Bunny bunks going over the roof. Well, of course, I
went to the back and fed it. I didn't want it eating
out in the front because, sure enough, they do.
They make a mess, and I wasn't anxious to sweep it up
and clean it. But I'm proud to know that the
squirrels even love me. And that's something
else. I have a mockingbird that comes, and I feed
it. I love to hear them sing. In fact, I don't know of
anything that God has created in this world that
there isn't some good in and put here for some
purpose. Purpose we may not understand. We may not
know. But God only made good things. He didn't make
anything bad. The only thing that's made bad, we
did it ourselves. And I love to see the sunrise come
up in the east, and I love to watch it go down in the
west, and hope that he will spare my life to see it
come up in the morning. He would say, adios, mi
amigos.
Of all the great experiences that a child can have
is living with nature and seeing it firsthand. If
you've ever witnessed a mother raccoon teaching
her babies how to fish that's one of the most
interesting things in this world you'll
understand exactly how mothers of today work and
do the same with their children. Uncle Sid Hyde was
one of the greatest naturalists that this country
will ever know, yet he was just a regular fella. He
said, now if you want to see how this is done,
sister, sit down back here behind this rock just
where you can be tall enough to look over and see
what she did. The old mother raccoon went down to
the river And she walked up and down the bank and she
looked and she could see that there were some
little perch in this shallow water. She came back
and she chattered and chattered and chattered to
these four baby raccoons. And she took them one at a
time down to this shallow pool. And she got in. And
she called to them, and one at a time got in this
water, just one. And the other sat on the bank. And
she would take them around and she'd paddle them
around and she would talk to them. She'd take, when
they got out, she just took it by her two front feet
and just more or less shook the water off of him, set
him down and just chattered as if to say, now you sit
right here and don't you move till I tell you to. And
sure enough, that little old fella sat there and
waited until each one had had a chance at trying to
catch the fish. Definitely, the second one she
took in the water did catch its fish. Well, each one
would go back in and she would repeat the same
thing. When she got through fishing, or they'd all
had their turn, she went to each one of them And she
picked them up and shook them real good to see that
the water was getting off of their fur. She set them
back down. And she sat down just on her hunkers,
more or less, and chattered and chattered, just as
if to say, now, this is your first lesson, and this
is how it's done. We're going to deeper water. So up
the river they went about. 25 yards, and Uncle Sid
saw her going up the path, and these little coons
followed one right behind the other. She got up
there in the same procedure. She didn't take the
one she took the first time, but she took the one
that went in last. She took him that time. And it's
quite amusing. She took him and spent a lot more
time in training him than she did in the beginning.
For what reason, unless it was that he was quite
smaller than the others or was weaker, I guess that
was it. He was the weaker of the four. That happens
in all families, even you know that as well as I,
that the mother will favor the weaker child each
time. It even comes out in our animal life. Anyway,
she gave them all the things. But it was the cutest
thing. It took two of them to catch this catfish. It
wasn't much more than a foot long. But to them, it
was a great big one. And it took both of them. And
they put it out on that rock. And let me tell you.
They all four ate, and there wasn't any fussing
about, that's mine, you don't get any. They all
four sat down around that catfish, and they'd just
take a bite, it looked like, and then the next one
take a bite around. And the old mother sat and
watched just as faithful as a mother at a table
would while his children ate. To me, that's the
most wonderful lesson that a person could think
of. Those things are, that's something that's
never written up in books. People don't take the
time they take for granted that everyone knows how
it's done. And let me tell you, you've always heard
that a possum plays dead, and he's called old pouty
possum. But honestly, he isn't dead, but he's in a
dead faint. He actually faints, and that's what
really happens. And people have the wrong concept
of it. And let me tell you, that's another thing
that is really cute. Just watch an old mother
possum. She'll take her tail and stretch it out.
And one little possum will get with his head to the
right and the other with his head to the left. And
that's the way she'll do it. And that old tail goes
over her back. And each little possum will. hook
his claws in her fur and she'll carry him and she'll
just go just a hopping. She doesn't run. She more or
less hops down the trail to wherever she's going to
take these babies and she'll chatter or grunt more
or less and If either of the little fellas see
something strange, they give this little call of
caution. And she will stop and she'll look. She'll
look to the right and she'll look to the left. And
then she'll go on. And if something is wrong,
she'll leave the trail and take to the bushes.
And they're cute.
You know, one day we were riding in the pasture, and
I kept seeing this old buzzard that was just
sitting on this dead tree, right on the tip top on a
dead tree. And I said to my daddy, I said, Daddy, do
you reckon it could be a dead cow over there in that
thicket? I see a buzzard sitting over there. And he
said, No, darling. He says, I don't think so. He
said, If it's a dead animal, there would be
several. buzzards all flying around together.
But just this one, and I have an idea that there's a
buzzard nest there. I said, a buzzard nest? He
said, yes, you know, they lay eggs and they'll
hatch them and one will stay and watch and the other
one will go for food. And I said, Daddy, take me over
there and let's see. And he said, now let me tell
you. I'll take you over there, and if the old mama
buzzard is on the nest, that will be the papa
buzzard that's watching, and he'll have to go out
and get feed for her, and he'll come back and feed
her. But don't, now let me tell you, sister, I mean
this. Don't ever go up to that nest and try to bother
those little birds if they're there or pick them
up. I said, well, why? Why can't I pick them up? I did
know, and he told me when I was a child not to ever put
my hand in a little bird's nest that their mama
wouldn't come back. We left a scent that would
frighten them, and they wouldn't come back, and
the baby birds would starve. Well, I didn't figure
that by picking up one of these little buzzards
that that was bothering. He said, no, don't touch
those buzzards. Leave them alone. If you do,
you'll be sorry. And I said, well, why, Daddy, why?
He said, well, that old papa buzzard, well, he
didn't say vomit. He said, he'll just puke all over
you and say, you just never will get that scent off
of you. And I said, oh, Daddy, I wouldn't let that
happen to me. I'd get out of his way. He said, well,
you better not do it. Just mind what I tell you.
Leave it alone. We looked at these two little
buzzards, and they were... Little yellow downy
things reminded me of little goslings, and oh, I
thought they were the cutest things that ever was.
Well, every two or three days, I'd have to go back
and look at the buzzards, but I still didn't touch
them. Well, they turned to be white. And, oh, I
thought that was so pretty. And so Emmett Redford,
Dr. Emmett Redford at the University of Texas in
Linden and Kitty Clyde and Georgie Kamak and
Irene, oh, just a whole gang of us after Sunday
school was there. And I said, let's go down and look
at the little buzzards. And they said, oh, little
buzzards. I don't guess I ever saw one. Well, when
we got down there this time, they had turned to
another color. And they were kind of a... brown
looking and just like a argancic turkey and color
brown and I thought my goodness saliva but this is
where they always were and I know it's the same
buzzards and Margaret said well now the last time
we was down here they were white they wasn't like
this and I said no they've changed color so we went
on back and we didn't bother them next time we went
down there they were kind of uh Well. A green it was
just nothing I couldn't say, but just a kind of a
dark. Dirty. green look more or less like an olive
green and I said well I've never seen anything like
that now that just beats the world and we went on
back and I told my daddy and he said oh yes they'll
have it they'll change color again before they get
black and I said daddy I just don't believe that
that's the same buzzards I don't believe they're
buzzards I think there's something else well it
was quite a curiosity we went back down there in
about another week and they were uh They turned to
almost a black, but the most beautiful iridescent
color that I ever looked at in my life. And I
decided, and they were hopping around, just
hopping and hopping all around, but not able to
fly. And Margaret... said to me, said, Ava, why
don't you go in there and get one of those, and let's
just see if it is a buzzard. I said, well, how could
we tell anymore if it's a buzzard just by looking at
it out here? And she said, well, we can look at its
feet. I said, well, you can see its feet anyway. She
said, well, let's go in there and get one. So we
started in there, and I'm telling you, that old
papa buzzard really did, just like my daddy said,
he sure did puke on us. stink and we vomited and we
vomited. We were just sicker than a dog from the
scent. And got home, and my mother wouldn't let us
come in the house. And we went out and turned the
water on out under the tank at the well to wash. But
oh my God, trying to get it out of our hair. I'll
never forget, and we both had long hair. And I'll
tell you, we were the biggest mess that ever was.
But I learned my lesson and learned it fast, not to
bother little buzzards. Where
are you? You are here. Where are you? You are there.
Where are you? You are
here. Where? Estamos
nosotros. Nosotros estamos allá. ¿Dónde está yo?
Yo está aquí. ¿Dónde están ellos? Ellos están
allá.
Hola, Catalina. Cortel. ¿Qué tal? Hola,
Catalina. ¿Qué tal? Catalina. Muy bien. ¿Y tú?
Antonia. Estoy muy bien. Gracias. Catalina. ¿A
dónde vas, Antonia? Antonia. Voy a la oficina. ¿Y
tú? Catalina. Voy a clase. Antonia. Bueno, hasta
mañani. Catalina, adios.
Voy a la oficio. Repeat. Voy a la oficio. Voy...